# Evaluation of the uncertainty of the coefficient of thermal expansion of a ceramic dimensional gauge block measured by interferometry.

*Authors of the poster*: Kaled Sequeira Aguilar, Javier Fernández González, José Abrahan Alfaro Alvarado, Raziel Farid Sanabria Sandí, Ernesto Montero Zeledón.

*Authors of the code*: Kaled Sequeira Aguilar, Javier Fernández González.

**Abstract**: This project is part of a larger project that considers the design, construction, verification, and theoretical analysis of uncertainties of a device that is part of a measurement system to determine the coefficient of thermal expansion of a dimensional gauge block using a Michelson interferometer. In this part of the project, a theoretical analysis is carried out to calculate the best estimator and evaluate the uncertainty of the coefficient of thermal expansion of a ceramic gauge block, used as a dimensional standard. In the metrological verification and calibration processes of some dimensional magnitude measuring instruments, gauge blocks with specified nominal lengths are used as a reference, and confidence in these processes depends to a large extent on the knowledge of the physical properties of the materials used as patterns. Particularly the coefficient of thermal expansion. An adequate measurement method and knowledge of the precise dimensions of the gauge block and its coefficient of thermal expansion allow a reliable estimate of the measurement uncertainty in the calibration of the instruments where these gauge blocks are used. The direct measurement of the thermal properties of these blocks represents a technical challenge, but also an opportunity to work on linkage projects between the Optics area and the Metrology area of the Physics Department of the Technological Institute of Costa Rica. In this paper, the measurement function, and a detail of the evaluation of the uncertainty in the determination of the coefficient of thermal expansion of the analyzed block is carried out, based on a proposed design of the measurement system.
